docs/content/getting_started/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Getting Started"
menuTitle: Getting Started
description: How to get started using Gloo Mesh
weight: 10
---

Welcome to Gloo Mesh, the open-source, multi-cluster, multi-mesh management plane. Gloo Mesh simplifies service-mesh operations and lets you manage multiple clusters of a service mesh from a centralized management plane. Gloo Mesh takes care of things like shared-trust/root CA federation, workload discovery, unified multi-cluster/global traffic policy, access policy, and more. 

## Getting `meshctl`

Gloo Mesh has a CLI tool called `meshctl` that helps bootstrap Gloo Mesh, register clusters, describe configured resources, and more. Get the latest `meshctl` from the [releases page on solo-io/gloo-mesh](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo-mesh/releases).

You can also quickly install like this:

```shell
curl -sL https://run.solo.io/meshctl/install | sh
```

Once you've downloaded the correct binary for your architecture, run the following to make sure it's working correctly:

```shell
meshctl version
```

You can add `meshctl` to your PATH ([Windows](https://helpdeskgeek.com/windows-10/add-windows-path-environment-variable/) [Mac](https://osxdaily.com/2014/08/14/add-new-path-to-path-command-line/) [Linux](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-directory-to-path-in-linux/)) for global access on the command line.

## Deploying Gloo Mesh

In this section, we detail a few ways to get you up and running with Gloo Mesh and Gloo Mesh Enterprise. For detailed
information on each aspect of Gloo Mesh installation, check out the [setup guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/" %}}).

{{% children description="true" %}}

Commit message:

Backport docs for meshctl install to 1.1.x branch (#1875)
* Adding a doc about how to install the meshctl CLI (#1861)

* Adding a doc about how to install the meshctl CLI

So that we can point to this page from the many other places in the doc that we have variants of these steps. Encountered this while trying to verify the upgrade steps.
* Simpler version change and imperatives
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Adding links to install topic where relevant
* Merge branch 'adb-install-meshctl' of github.com:solo-io/gloo-mesh into adb-install-meshctl
* Adding skew policy
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Update docs/content/setup/installation/meshctl_cli_install.md
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Update docs/content/setup/installation/meshctl_cli_install.md
* fix formatting from review in draft
* Merge branch 'adb-install-meshctl' of github.com:solo-io/gloo-mesh into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Fix generated content update
* Update docs/content/reference/cli/_index.md
* Update docs/content/reference/cli/_index.md
* Doc fixing for link (#1873)

* Fixing link

In the tabs, you have to do HTML formatting instead of markdown.
* make install-go-tools generated-code -B
* Merge refs/heads/v1.1.x into adb-11x-backport-cli

docs/content/getting_started/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Getting Started"
menuTitle: Getting Started
description: How to get started using Gloo Mesh
weight: 10
---

Welcome to Gloo Mesh, the open-source, multi-cluster, multi-mesh management plane. Gloo Mesh simplifies service-mesh operations and lets you manage multiple clusters of a service mesh from a centralized management plane. Gloo Mesh takes care of things like shared-trust/root CA federation, workload discovery, unified multi-cluster/global traffic policy, access policy, and more. 

## Getting `meshctl`

Install the latest version of `meshctl`. Make sure to add `meshctl` to your PATH (see [Windows](https://helpdeskgeek.com/windows-10/add-windows-path-environment-variable/), [macOS](https://osxdaily.com/2014/08/14/add-new-path-to-path-command-line/), or [Linux](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-directory-to-path-in-linux/) for specific instructions). For more information, see [`meshctl` CLI]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/installation/meshctl_cli_install/" >}}).

```shell
curl -sL https://run.solo.io/meshctl/install | sh
```

## Deploying Gloo Mesh

In this section, we detail a few ways to get you up and running with Gloo Mesh and Gloo Mesh Enterprise. For detailed
information on each aspect of Gloo Mesh installation, check out the [setup guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/" %}}).

{{% children description="true" %}}
