docs/content/setup/installation/community_installation.md, before:

---
title: "Community"
menuTitle: Community
description: Installing Gloo Mesh Community
weight: 20
---

Gloo Mesh uses a Kubernetes cluster to host the management plane (Gloo Mesh) while each service mesh can run on its own independent cluster. If you don't have access to multiple clusters, see the [Getting Started Guide]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/getting_started/" %}}) to get started with Kubernetes in Docker, or refer to our [Using Kind]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/kind_setup" %}}) setup guide to provision two clusters.

{{% notice note %}}
Gloo Mesh Enterprise is the paid version of Gloo Mesh, including the Gloo Mesh UI and multi-cluster role-based access control. The deployment model and installation process for Gloo Mesh Enterprise is different. You can find a [guide for installation here]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/installation/enterprise_installation/" %}}).
{{% /notice %}}

![Gloo Mesh Architecture]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gloomesh-3clusters.png" %}})

You can install Gloo Mesh onto its own cluster and register remote clusters, or you can co-locate Gloo Mesh onto a cluster with a service mesh. The former (giving Gloo Mesh its own unregistered cluster) is the preferred deployment pattern, but for getting started, exploring, or to save resources, you can use the co-located deployment approach.

![Gloo Mesh Architecture]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gloomesh-2clusters.png" %}})

In this guide we will walk through the process of installing Gloo Mesh either through [meshctl](#installing-with-meshctl) or by using [Helm](#install-with-helm).

## Assumptions for setup

We will assume in this and following guides that we have access to two clusters and the following two contexts available in our `kubeconfig` file. 

Your actual context names will likely be different.

* `cluster-1-context`
    - kubeconfig context pointing to a cluster where we will install and operate Gloo Mesh
* `cluster-2-context`
    - kubeconfig context pointing to a cluster where we will install and manage a service mesh using Gloo Mesh 

To verify you're running the following commands in the correct context, run:

```shell
MGMT_CONTEXT=your_management_plane_context
REMOTE_CONTEXT=your_remote_context

kubectl config use-context $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

## Install Gloo Mesh

{{% notice note %}}
Note that these contexts need not be different; you may install and manage a service mesh in the same cluster as Gloo Mesh. For the purposes of this guide, though, we will assume they are different.
{{% /notice %}} 

### Installing with `meshctl`

`meshctl` is a CLI tool that helps bootstrap Gloo Mesh, register clusters, describe configured resources, and more. Get the latest `meshctl` from the [releases page on solo-io/gloo-mesh](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo-mesh/releases).

You can also quickly install like this:

```shell
curl -sL https://run.solo.io/meshctl/install | sh
```

Once you have the `meshctl` tool, you can install Gloo Mesh onto the cluster acting as the management cluster like this:

```shell
meshctl install community
```

Note that this command assumes that you're still using the context for the `cluster-1`. If you switched away, you can explicitly specify it using the `--kubecontext` option:

```shell
meshctl install community --kubecontext $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

You should see output similar to this:

```shell
Creating namespace gloo-mesh... Done.
Starting Gloo Mesh installation...
Gloo Mesh successfully installed!
Gloo Mesh has been installed to namespace gloo-mesh
```

To undo the installation, run `uninstall`:

```shell
meshctl uninstall
```

### Installing with `kubectl apply`

If you prefer working directly with the Kubernetes resources, (either to use `kubectl apply` or to put into CI/CD), `meshctl` can output `yaml` from the `install` (or any) command with the `--dry-run` flag:

```shell
meshctl install community --dry-run
```

You can use this output to later run `kubectl apply`:

```shell
meshctl install community --dry-run | kubectl apply -f -
```

{{% notice note %}}
Note that the `--dry-run` outputs the entire `yaml`, but does not take care of proper ordering of resources. For example, there can be a *race* between Custom Resource Definitions being registered and any Custom Resources being created that may appear to be an error. If that happens, just re-run the `kubectl apply`.
{{% /notice %}}

To undo the installation, run:

```shell
meshctl install community --dry-run | kubectl delete -f -
```

### Install with Helm

The Helm charts for Gloo Mesh support Helm 3. To install with Helm first add the Gloo Mesh Helm repository:

```shell
helm repo add gloo-mesh https://storage.googleapis.com/gloo-mesh/gloo-mesh
helm repo update
```

Then install Gloo Mesh into the `gloo-mesh` namespace:


```shell
helm install gloo-mesh gloo-mesh/gloo-mesh --namespace gloo-mesh --create-namespace
```


### Verify install
Once you've installed Gloo Mesh, verify what components were installed:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n gloo-mesh
```

```shell
NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
discovery-66675cf6fd-cdlpq    1/1     Running   0          32m
networking-6d7686564d-ngrdq   1/1     Running   0          32m
```

Running the check command from meshctl will verify everything was installed correctly:

```shell
meshctl check
```

```shell
Gloo Mesh
-------------------
✅ Gloo Mesh pods are running

Management Configuration
---------------------------
✅ Gloo Mesh networking configuration resources are in a valid state
```

## Next steps

With Gloo Mesh installed, the next step is to [register clusters with Gloo Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/cluster_registration/community_cluster_registration" %}}) and discover the service meshes running on those clusters.

Commit message:

Backport docs for meshctl install to 1.1.x branch (#1875)
* Adding a doc about how to install the meshctl CLI (#1861)

* Adding a doc about how to install the meshctl CLI

So that we can point to this page from the many other places in the doc that we have variants of these steps. Encountered this while trying to verify the upgrade steps.
* Simpler version change and imperatives
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Adding links to install topic where relevant
* Merge branch 'adb-install-meshctl' of github.com:solo-io/gloo-mesh into adb-install-meshctl
* Adding skew policy
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Update docs/content/setup/installation/meshctl_cli_install.md
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Update docs/content/setup/installation/meshctl_cli_install.md
* fix formatting from review in draft
* Merge branch 'adb-install-meshctl' of github.com:solo-io/gloo-mesh into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Merge refs/heads/main into adb-install-meshctl
* Fix generated content update
* Update docs/content/reference/cli/_index.md
* Update docs/content/reference/cli/_index.md
* Doc fixing for link (#1873)

* Fixing link

In the tabs, you have to do HTML formatting instead of markdown.
* make install-go-tools generated-code -B
* Merge refs/heads/v1.1.x into adb-11x-backport-cli

docs/content/setup/installation/community_installation.md, after:

---
title: "Community"
menuTitle: Community
description: Installing Gloo Mesh Community
weight: 20
---

Gloo Mesh uses a Kubernetes cluster to host the management plane (Gloo Mesh) while each service mesh can run on its own independent cluster. If you don't have access to multiple clusters, see the [Getting Started Guide]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/getting_started/" %}}) to get started with Kubernetes in Docker, or refer to our [Using Kind]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/kind_setup" %}}) setup guide to provision two clusters.

{{% notice note %}}
Gloo Mesh Enterprise is the paid version of Gloo Mesh, including the Gloo Mesh UI and multi-cluster role-based access control. The deployment model and installation process for Gloo Mesh Enterprise is different. You can find a [guide for installation here]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/installation/enterprise_installation/" %}}).
{{% /notice %}}

![Gloo Mesh Architecture]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gloomesh-3clusters.png" %}})

You can install Gloo Mesh onto its own cluster and register remote clusters, or you can co-locate Gloo Mesh onto a cluster with a service mesh. The former (giving Gloo Mesh its own unregistered cluster) is the preferred deployment pattern, but for getting started, exploring, or to save resources, you can use the co-located deployment approach.

![Gloo Mesh Architecture]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gloomesh-2clusters.png" %}})

In this guide we will walk through the process of installing Gloo Mesh either through [meshctl](#installing-with-meshctl) or by using [Helm](#install-with-helm).

## Assumptions for setup

We will assume in this and following guides that we have access to two clusters and the following two contexts available in our `kubeconfig` file. 

Your actual context names will likely be different.

* `cluster-1-context`
    - kubeconfig context pointing to a cluster where we will install and operate Gloo Mesh
* `cluster-2-context`
    - kubeconfig context pointing to a cluster where we will install and manage a service mesh using Gloo Mesh 

To verify you're running the following commands in the correct context, run:

```shell
MGMT_CONTEXT=your_management_plane_context
REMOTE_CONTEXT=your_remote_context

kubectl config use-context $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

## Install Gloo Mesh

{{% notice note %}}
Note that these contexts need not be different; you may install and manage a service mesh in the same cluster as Gloo Mesh. For the purposes of this guide, though, we will assume they are different.
{{% /notice %}} 

### Installing with `meshctl`

Install the latest version of `meshctl`. Make sure to add `meshctl` to your PATH (see [Windows](https://helpdeskgeek.com/windows-10/add-windows-path-environment-variable/), [macOS](https://osxdaily.com/2014/08/14/add-new-path-to-path-command-line/), or [Linux](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-directory-to-path-in-linux/) for specific instructions). For more information, see [`meshctl` CLI]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/installation/meshctl_cli_install/" >}}).

```shell
curl -sL https://run.solo.io/meshctl/install | sh
```

Once you have the `meshctl` tool, you can install Gloo Mesh onto the cluster acting as the management cluster like this:

```shell
meshctl install community
```

Note that this command assumes that you're still using the context for the `cluster-1`. If you switched away, you can explicitly specify it using the `--kubecontext` option:

```shell
meshctl install community --kubecontext $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

You should see output similar to this:

```shell
Creating namespace gloo-mesh... Done.
Starting Gloo Mesh installation...
Gloo Mesh successfully installed!
Gloo Mesh has been installed to namespace gloo-mesh
```

To undo the installation, run `uninstall`:

```shell
meshctl uninstall
```

### Installing with `kubectl apply`

If you prefer working directly with the Kubernetes resources, (either to use `kubectl apply` or to put into CI/CD), `meshctl` can output `yaml` from the `install` (or any) command with the `--dry-run` flag:

```shell
meshctl install community --dry-run
```

You can use this output to later run `kubectl apply`:

```shell
meshctl install community --dry-run | kubectl apply -f -
```

{{% notice note %}}
Note that the `--dry-run` outputs the entire `yaml`, but does not take care of proper ordering of resources. For example, there can be a *race* between Custom Resource Definitions being registered and any Custom Resources being created that may appear to be an error. If that happens, just re-run the `kubectl apply`.
{{% /notice %}}

To undo the installation, run:

```shell
meshctl install community --dry-run | kubectl delete -f -
```

### Install with Helm

The Helm charts for Gloo Mesh support Helm 3. To install with Helm first add the Gloo Mesh Helm repository:

```shell
helm repo add gloo-mesh https://storage.googleapis.com/gloo-mesh/gloo-mesh
helm repo update
```

Then install Gloo Mesh into the `gloo-mesh` namespace:


```shell
helm install gloo-mesh gloo-mesh/gloo-mesh --namespace gloo-mesh --create-namespace
```


### Verify install
Once you've installed Gloo Mesh, verify what components were installed:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n gloo-mesh
```

```shell
NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
discovery-66675cf6fd-cdlpq    1/1     Running   0          32m
networking-6d7686564d-ngrdq   1/1     Running   0          32m
```

Running the check command from meshctl will verify everything was installed correctly:

```shell
meshctl check
```

```shell
Gloo Mesh
-------------------
✅ Gloo Mesh pods are running

Management Configuration
---------------------------
✅ Gloo Mesh networking configuration resources are in a valid state
```

## Next steps

With Gloo Mesh installed, the next step is to [register clusters with Gloo Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/cluster_registration/community_cluster_registration" %}}) and discover the service meshes running on those clusters.
